.TH Vm_SetReal 3 "21 Oct 1992" "TAE Plus v5.3"
.SH NAME
Vm_SetReal - set values for a real variable

.SH DESCRIPTION
.IP
.LP
CODE Vm_SetReal (vmid, name, count, real, mode)

Function return:

.nr L 0 1
.IP o
SUCCESS: variable successfully placed in the parameter object.
.IP o
P_BADNAME: the variable does not exist.
.IP o
P_BADCOUNT: the count is either less than the minimum or greater
than the maximum allowed for this variable. 
.IP o
P_BADTYPE: the variable has a type other than real.
.IP o
P_DUPNAME: the variable already exists (for P_ADD mode).
.IP o
P_NOPARM: in the case of a qualifier name (form "x.y"), 
the parent parameter ("x" in the example) does not exist.
.LP

Note that the status codes listed above are available only if the object was
initialized in "continue" mode with a call to Vm_New.


Arguments:

.nr L 0 1
.IP \n+L.
vmid: input/output, Id   vmid;

Id of a Vm object; may be target or view Vm object returned by Co_Find. 
Otherwise, this object must have been allocated with a call to Vm_New.

.IP \n+L.
name: input, TEXT   name[ ];

Name of the real variable.  The name may be qualified to any number of levels,
for example, "x.q".

.IP \n+L.
count: input, FUNINT   count;

Multiplicity of the variable, i.e., the number of real values in
the real array.

The count values 0, -1, and -2 are special: a count of 0 means "null 
value"; a count of -1 means "no value," in which case the parameter
becomes a mandatory parameter; and a count of -2 means "use the
default value defined in the PDF."  The negative values apply during 
a dynamic tutor session.

.IP \n+L.
real: input, TAEFLOAT   real[ ];

An array of real values (a real value vector) for the variable.
If count is one, note that real must nonetheless be an array of dimension one;
if count is less than one, 
the real argument is ignored.

.IP \n+L.
mode: input, FUNINT   mode;

.nr L 0 1
.IP o
P_ADD: indicates that the variable is being added
to the parameter object. 
.IP o
P_UPDATE: indicates that the variable is already in
the parameter object, but its value and/or count is being modified. 
.LP

.IP
.LP
Vm_SetReal sets the values of the specified real variable.


.so man1/../COPYRIGHT
.so man1/../AUTHOR
