.TH Vm_SetIntg 3 "21 Oct 1992" "TAE Plus v5.3"
.SH NAME
Vm_SetIntg - set values for an integer variable

.SH DESCRIPTION
.IP
.LP
CODE Vm_SetIntg (vmid, name, count, intg, mode)

Function return:

.nr L 0 1
.IP o
SUCCESS: variable successfully placed in the parameter object.
.IP o
P_BADNAME: the variable does not exist.
.IP o
P_BADCOUNT: the count is either less than the minimum or greater
than the maximum allowed for this variable. 
.IP o
P_BADTYPE: the variable has a type other than integer.
.IP o
P_DUPNAME: the variable already exists (for P_ADD mode).
.IP o
P_NOPARM: in the case of a qualifier name (form "x.y"), 
the parent parameter ("x" in the example) does not exist.
.LP
Note that the status codes listed above are available only if the parameter
object was initialized in "continue" mode with a call to Vm_New.


Arguments:

.nr L 0 1
.IP \n+L.
vmid: input/output, Id   vmid;

Id of a Vm object; may be target or view Vm object returned by Co_Find.
Otherwise, this object  must have been allocated 
with a call to Vm_New.

.IP \n+L.
name: input, TEXT   name[ ];

Name of the integer variable.  The name may be qualified to any number of levels,
for example, "x.q".

.IP \n+L.
count: input, FUNINT   count;

Multiplicity of the variable, i.e., the number of integers in
the intg array.

The count values 0, -1, and -2 are special: a count of 0 means "null 
value"; a count of -1 means "no value," in which case the parameter
becomes a mandatory parameter; and a count of -2 means "use the
default value defined in the PDF."  The negative values apply during 
a dynamic tutor session.

.IP \n+L.
intg: input, TAEINT   intg[ ];

An array of integer values (an integer value vector) for the variable.
If count is one, note that intg must nonetheless be an array of dimension one.
If count is 
less than one, then the intg argument is ignored. 

.IP \n+L.
mode: input, FUNINT   mode;

.nr L 0 1
.IP o
P_ADD: indicates that the variable is being added
to the Vm object. 
.IP o
P_UPDATE: indicates that the variable is already in
the Vm object but its value and/or count is being modified. 
.LP

.IP
.LP
Vm_SetIntg sets the values of the integer variable.

A call to Vm_SetIntg replaces any previous values set for the 
specified variable.


.so man1/../COPYRIGHT
.so man1/../AUTHOR
