'\" t
.\"
.\"  @(#)TAE_tools.1	33.1 8/26/94 
.\"
.TH TAE_tools 1 "21 Jan 1994" "TAE Plus v5.3"
.SH NAME
TAE_tools - describes the most commonly used tools provided with TAE Plus

.SH TABLE OF TOOLS
.IP

.LP
TAE Plus, the Transportable Applications Environment Plus, includes
a number of utilities to aid designers and programmers
in user interface development,
code generation, and porting to other environments.

The table which follows highlights the most useful tools located in $TAEBIN.
All users should be familiar with, at a minimum:
.sp
.in +5
\(bu taesetup (environment setup)
.br
\(bu taewb (WorkBench)
.br
\(bu taeidraw (for Dynamic Data Objects)
.br
\(bu ACCESS TO TOOLS (a section below)
.br
.in -5


.ce 1
\fBAlphabetical List of TAE Plus Tools\fP

.TS
center, expand;
C fB  C fB
L w(3.0i)  L w(3.0i) .
Name and Arguments	Description
.sp
\fIfontalias\fP [dirname(s)]	T{
establishes aliases for X11 fonts
T}
.sp
\fIgenupgrade\fP file.gen [file2.gen...]	T{
upgrades pre-v5.2 
multiple-file style code 
generator \.gen history file to current format
T}
.sp
\fIiconconvert\fP file.res	T{
converts icons for porting between big-endian 
and little-endian machines
T}
.sp
\fIpar2pdf\fP file.par	T{
converts binary .par files to ASCII .pdf format
T}
.sp
\fIparupgrade\fP file.par [file2.par...]	T{
upgrades pre-v5.2 par file to the current format
T}
.sp
T{
\fIrec2pl\fP recordFileName > taeperlScript.pl
T}	T{
translates a record file produced by \fItaerecord(1)\fP to a
\fItaeperl(1)\fP script in preparation for hand edits 
prior to using \fItaeplayback(1)\fP 
T}
.sp
\fIres2rfg\fP file.res	T{
converts binary .res files to ASCII .rfg format
T}
.sp
\fIres2uil\fP [-e] file.res [file.uil file.c]	T{
generates UIL and corresponding C program from a TAE Plus resource file
T}
.sp
\fIreslister\fP [options] file.res	T{
produces formatted list of all resource values in
a resource file 
(Note: not officially supported or installed)
T}
.sp
\fIresupgrade\fP file.res [file2.res...]	T{
upgrades pre-v5.2 resource file to the current format
T}
.sp
\fIrfg2res\fP file.rfg	T{
converts ASCII .rfg format to binary .res file
T}
.sp
\fItaeccone\fP [-a] prog.c	T{
compiles and links single-file C code, generated by \fItaecg\fP;
supports both K&R and ANSI C builds
T}
.sp
\fItaecg\fP [options] file.res	T{
the TAE Plus Code Generator which can be invoked either from the
WorkBench or from the command line
T}
.sp
\fItaec++one\fP prog.cc	T{
compiles and links single-file C++ code, generated by \fItaecg\fP
T}
.sp
\fItaeidraw\fP	T{
a modified version of
Stanford University's drawing tool (from the InterViews software)
used to design TAE Plus Dynamic Data Objects (DDOs)
T}
.sp
\fItaeperl\fP [options] taeperlScript.pl	T{
\fIperl(1)\fP interpreter with TAE Plus subroutines
T}
.sp
\fItaeplayback\fP recSessionFile	T{
\fItaeperl(1)\fP script which plays  back  the  user  session  stored  in
a record file produced by \fItaerecord(1)\fP
or in a taeperl file produced by \fIrec2pl(1)\fP
T}
.sp
T{
\fItaerecord\fP [-start | -stop] 
socketName [recordFileName]
T}	T{
\fItaeperl(1)\fP script which starts or stops record mode in a TAE Plus
application which has executed a call to \fIWpt_ScriptInit(3)\fP
T}
.sp
\fItaesetup\fP	T{
shell script which sets needed TAE Plus environment variables
T}
.sp
\fItaetm\fP	T{
the TAE Monitor, part of TAE Classic
T}
.sp
\fItaewb\fP [options] [file.res]	T{
the TAE Plus WorkBench, the WYSIWYG User Interface Design Tool 
T}
.TE

NOTE: For a description of file naming conventions, 
see "TAE Plus FILENAME EXTENSIONS" below.

.bp
.SH ACCESS TO TOOLS
.IP

.LP
Access to the tools requires that you setup your 
environment.  For csh users, the commands are:

.nf

    setenv TAE root_of_TAE_Plus_delivery
    source $TAE/bin/csh/taesetup
    set path = ($path $TAEBIN $TAEDEMOBIN)

.fi

For Bourne shell users the commands are:

.nf

    TAE=root_of_TAE_Plus_delivery
    export TAE
    . $TAE/bin/sh/taesetup
    PATH=$PATH:$TAEBIN:$TAEDEMOBIN

.fi

For additional details, see "taesetup DESCRIPTION" above and
\fISetting Up Your TAE Plus Environment\fP.




.SH DESCRIPTIONS OF TOOLS
.IP

.LP
Details concerning each tool listed above appear below.

.SH taewb (WorkBench) OPTIONS
.IP

.LP

For detailed information describing the WorkBench,
see the document \fITAE Plus User Interface Developers Guide\fP.

If the WorkBench is invoked without a filename (file.res),
a File Selection panel will prompt the user for the filename.

The TAE Plus WorkBench, \fItaewb\fP, supports the following 
command line options.

.TS
center expand ;
C fI  C fI
L  L w(4.5i).
Option	Description
.sp
no option	T{
Normal Startup; all panels in the resource file are built and
fully displayed
T}
.sp
-f	T{
Fast Iconic; panels are only partially built as icons; 
fastest startup for application with many panels, 
but requires slightly more time to subsequently deiconify 
requested panels; saves screen real estate
T}
.sp
-i	T{
Iconic; panels are completely built but are displayed as icons;
fast startup for application with many panels; 
fastest deiconifying of requested panels; saves screen real estate
T}
.sp
.\"	-l	T{
.\"	Logging; enables copious event reporting (for internal use only)
.\"	T}
.\"	.sp
-n	T{
New Resource File; suppress "Beginning new application" message
T}
.sp
-p	T{
Print Messages; Wpt_PanelMessages replaced by print to stdout
T}
.\"	.sp
.\"	-s	T{
.\"	Scripting mode (for internal use only)
.\"	T}
.TE

.\"	.bp
.SH taecg (Code Generator) OPTIONS
.IP

.LP

For an overview of the Code Generator including a description
of all options, see the \fItaecg(1)\fP man page.
For detailed information describing the Code Generator,
see the document entitled \fITAE Plus Code Generation Manual\fP.

Although typically invoked from the Auxiliary pulldown menu
of the WorkBench, \fItaecg\fP
can be executed directly from the command line (even from an ASCII terminal).

.SH genupgrade DESCRIPTION
.IP

.LP
\fINote:\fP
.br
Users of \fIsingle-file style\fP code generation do not need to use genupgrade.

Use the utility \fIgenupgrade\fP to convert (upgrade) all pre-v5.2
multiple-file style code generator .gen files
to the current resource file format.  
One or more .gen files can be converted at a time:
.sp
.in +5
\fB% genupgrade\fP \fIgenfilename(s)\fP
.in -5
.sp
.sp
Failure to run the conversion utility will result in 
unnecessary regeneration of some files by \fItaecg\fP
(although backup versions will be saved).

.SH fontalias DESCRIPTION
.IP

.LP
The \fIfontalias\fP script is intended to be executed \fIonce\fP by \fIroot\fP
(or whoever owns /usr/lib/X11/fonts).  TAE Plus assumes that X Window System
fonts can be specified by a short \fIalias\fP such as "courB12" in
addition to the long X11 Logical Font Description: 

.in +5
.nf
"-adobe-courier-bold-r-normal--12-120-75-75-m-70-iso8859-1"
.fi
.in -5

The script optionally accepts the names of directories which
contain your font files.  By executing the script, the string
"FILE_NAMES_ALIASES" is appended to the \fIfonts.alias\fP
file in each font directory.  Comments in the script describe how
to run this on an X terminal (i.e., Wyse or NCD).  It can also
be used with OpenWindows.
.\"  as discussed in the TBD TAE Newsletter.

To determine whether you need to run \fIfontalias\fP, try:

.in +5
% xterm -font courB12
.in -5

If you see an error message similar the following, 
you need to use \fIfontalias\fP:

.in +5
.nf
xterm:  unable to open font "courB12", trying "fixed"....
.fi
.in -5



.SH iconconvert DESCRIPTION
.IP

.LP
The \fIiconconvert\fP utility is only needed if TAE Plus resource
files are ported between big-endian and little-endian architectures,
for example, between a SPARCstation and a VAXstation.

The utility should be run after converting the .rfg file to a .res
file (see \fIres2rfg\fP and \fIrfg2res\fP).
Executing \fIiconconvert\fP will update icon items for the current
architecture. (If a resource file contains \fIpanel\fP icons, but no icon
items, \fIiconconvert\fP is not necessary.)

.SH par2pdf DESCRIPTION
.IP

.LP
The \fIpar2pdf\fP tool converts binary .par (parameter block) files
into ASCII .pdf ("proc" definition file, where "proc" can be mean either
a "process" or a "procedure").  Since a resource
file (.res) is comprised of .par files which can be extracted using
the UNIX \fIar(1)\fP command, by converting the .par files to .pdf files,
they can be edited outside of the WorkBench.  

Note: Use \fItaetm\fP to convert .pdf files into .par files. 
For example:

.in +5
.nf
% taetm	# prompt changes to "TAE>"
TAE> file.pdf | save=file.par |
TAE> exit
.fi
.in -5

Note the trailing pipe symbol in the above.

.SH parupgrade DESCRIPTION
.IP

.LP
To convert pre-v5.2 \fIpar\fP files to the current format,
use the utility \fIparupgrade\fP.
One or more par files can be converted at a time:
.sp
.in +5
\fB% parupgrade\fP \fIparfilename(s)\fP
.in -5

See also \fIresupgrade\fP and \fIgenupgrade\fP.

.SH rec2pl DESCRIPTION
.IP

.LP
See the \fIrec2pl(1)\fP man page.

.SH reslister DESCRIPTION
.IP

.LP
\fINote: This tool is useful but not officially supported.
It is delivered unbuilt and therefore it is not installed
in your search path. 
See README.reslister and reslister.c in $TAECONTRIB/util/reslister.\fP

Use this tool if you need to quickly check the setting of some
resources (e.g., fg, bg, font, title, item name, presentation specific
resources, etc.) and do not need to use the WorkBench.
By default, \fIreslister\fP displays 
item names, item titles and panel names.
Use the -a option to also report individual resource values.
Use the -p option to check only a particular panel.
Typing an unknown option result in usage information; try -h[elp].

.SH res2rfg DESCRIPTION
.IP

.LP
This tool is necessary when porting TAE Plus binary resource files to
other architectures.  On the source machine, 
use \fIres2rfg\fP to create an ASCII representation
of the resource file, called a .rfg (resource file generator) file.
Copy the .rfg to the destination machine.
Use \fIrfg2res\fP on the destination architecture to convert the ASCII
file back to binary.

.SH res2uil DESCRIPTION
.IP

.LP
This utility generates User Interface Language (UIL) and
Motif Resource Manager (Mrm) C code from an input TAE Plus resource file.
By default, a UIL/Mrm application does not require proprietary 
TAE Plus libraries, resulting in a smaller executable. 
However, some of the functionality of the
Wpt library is lost and must be simulated in Xt and Xlib code.

See the \fIres2uil\fP man page for complete usage information.

.SH resupgrade DESCRIPTION
.IP

.LP
Use the utility \fIresupgrade\fP to convert (upgrade) all pre-v5.2
resource files to the current resource file format.  
One or more resource files can be converted at a time:
.sp
.in +5
\fB% resupgrade\fP \fIresfilename(s)\fP
.in -5
.sp
.sp
Failure to run the conversion utility will result in the following
error message from the WorkBench when trying to access a v5.1 (or earlier)
resource file:
.sp
.in +5
\fI[TAE-OLDRESFILE] File 'resfilename' has obsolete format. 
Use $TAEBIN/resupgrade.\fP
.in -5

Accidentally running \fIresupgrade\fP more than once on the same
resource file is not a problem.  However, you will see this message:
.sp
.in +5
\fIParameter file '_directory.par' is correctly formatted, no conversion is needed.\fP
.in -5

\fINOTE:
.br
After running the conversion utility, resupgrade,
re-compile and re-link all old applications which reference the
converted resource files or .par files.
\fP
.sp
Failure to re-link after running resupgrade will result in the following
error message from your application:
.sp
.in +5
\fI[TAE-PFRD] Error reading resource file 'resfilename'.  Buffer size too small.
.br
Aborting...\fP
.in -5

See also \fIparupgrade\fP and \fIgenupgrade\fP.

.SH rfg2res DESCRIPTION
.IP

.LP
This tool is necessary when porting TAE Plus binary resource files to
other architectures.  On the source machine, 
use \fIres2rfg\fP to create an ASCII representation
of the resource file, called a .rfg (resource file generator) file.
Copy the .rfg to the destination machine.
Use \fIrfg2res\fP on the destination architecture to convert the ASCII
file back to binary.

.SH taeccone DESCRIPTION
.IP

.LP
This Bourne shell script is provided to compile and
link single-file C applications.  
For a more flexible scheme involving Imakefiles and Makefiles, 
see the \fITAE Plus Code Generation Manual\fP.

Invoke \fItaeccone\fP with the name of the single C file you wish
to build.  

This shell script supports both K&R and ANSI C builds,
differentiated by the absence or presence of the -a option described
below.

.TS
center expand ;
C fI  C fI
L  L w(4.5i).
Option	Description
.sp
no option	T{
Kernighan and Ritchie (K&R) C compiling and linking
T}
.sp
-a (or -A)	T{
ANSI C compiling and linking
T}
.TE

.SH taec++one DESCRIPTION
.IP

.LP
This Bourne shell script is provided strictly to compile and
link single-file C++ applications.  
For a more flexible scheme involving Imakefiles and Makefiles, 
see the \fITAE Plus Code Generation Manual\fP
and the \fITAE Plus C++ Programmers Reference\fP.

Invoke \fItaeccone\fP with the name of the single C++ file you wish
to build.  The script expects no options.

.SH taeidraw DESCRIPTION
.IP

.LP
The InterViews drawing tool, \fIidraw\fP, is installed as
\fItaeidraw\fP to avoid conflict with any previous InterViews versions
you may have at your site.

A separate man page is provided. See \fItaeidraw\fP.

.SH taetm DESCRIPTION
.IP

.LP
The \fItaetm\fP application is the TAE Terminal Monitor, sometimes referred
to as "TM".  The Terminal Monitor is the executive software which
interprets the TAE Command Language (TCL) and implements the TAE Classic 
menus, tutor, and help panels for character cell terminals.

.ig xx
X For further information, see the documents \fITAE Command Language (TCL)
X User's Manual\fP and \fITAE Command Language (TCL) Programmers Manual\fP.
.xx

.SH taeperl DESCRIPTION
.IP

.LP
See the \fItaeperl(1)\fP man page.

.SH taeplayback DESCRIPTION
.IP

.LP
See the \fItaeplayback(1)\fP man page.


.SH taerecord DESCRIPTION
.IP

.LP
See the \fItaerecord(1)\fP man page.

.SH taesetup DESCRIPTION
.IP

.LP
The purpose of \fItaesetup\fP
is to setup a number of UNIX environment variables for
TAE Plus users and developers.

This shell script is intended to be sourced from your ~/.cshrc file.
For example:

.in +5
.nf
if ($?TAE == 0) then
    setenv TAE /home/tae/v53   # adjust for your installation
    source $TAE/bin/csh/taesetup
endif
.fi
.in -5

Note: Programmers who need access to TAE Plus source code directories,
for example, to add a presentation type, should also add the line:

.in +5
.nf
    source $TAE/bin/csh/taesetupsrc
.fi
.in -5

after the taesetup line.

.SH TAE Plus FILENAME EXTENSIONS
.IP

.LP

.TS
center expand;
L  C
L  L w(4.0i).
Filename Extension	Description
.sp
\.bak	T{
backup files created by \fItaecg\fP and \fIres2uil\fP.
T}
.sp
\.gen	T{
code generator's binary format similar to a resource file 
without view information (contains only *_t.par files);
produced by \fItaecg\fP only for multiple-file style of code generation
T}
.sp
\.new	T{
created by \fItaecg\fP for code merging. 
T}
.sp
\.par	T{
binary disk collection of TAE Variables (Vm Object); a resource file
consists of pairs of .par files (view and target) for each panel
T}
.sp
\.pdf	T{
ASCII "proc" definition file, where "proc" can be either \fIprocess\fP
or \fIprocedure\fP;  a .par file is a binary representation of
a .pdf.
T}
.sp
\.pl	T{
\fIperl(1)\fP or \fItaeperl(1)\fP script.
T}
.sp
\.rec	T{
text file produced by \fItaerecord(1)\fP. 
T}
.sp
\.rej	T{
reject file created by \fItaecg(1)\fP code merging.
T}
.sp
\.res	T{
binary Resource file, comprised of 3 or more .par files;
for each panel in the resource file, there is a
panelname_v.par (view object), panelname_t.par (target object), 
and _directory.par (connections information);
stored as a UNIX archive (or VMS concatenation)
T}
.sp
\.rfg	T{
Resource File Generator is an ASCII file format; 
it is a TCL procedure PDF for creating the original .res
file using the \fIrfg2res\fP utility
T}
.sp
\.sk	T{
scripting socket created by \fIWpt_ScriptInit(3)\fP.
T}
.sp
\.tpl	T{
\fItaeperl(1)\fP script for testing applications.
T}
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO 
Separate man pages are provided for 
\fITAE_demos(1)\fP, 
\fItaecg(1)\fP,
\fIrec2pl(1)\fP,
\fIres2uil(1)\fP,
\fItaeidraw(1)\fP,
\fItaeperl(1)\fP,
\fItaerecord(1)\fP,
\fItaeplayback(1)\fP.


.so man1/../COPYRIGHT
.so man1/../AUTHOR
